feat(op): comprehensive metrics documentation (#37924)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/destinations/kafka.md

## Metrics

For the [component metrics][13] and [destination buffer metrics][14] emitted by all destinations, see the Observability Pipelines Metrics documentation.

### Kafka metrics

- Use the `component_id` tag to filter or group by individual components.

> - The `component_type` tag is `kafka` for these metrics.

Reviewer: Is it the component_id that distinguishes between a Kafka source vs Kafka destination metrics?

```suggestion
- The `component_type` tag is `kafka` for Kafka destination metrics.
```

Author: this, and `component_kind`.

`pipelines.kafka_produced_messages_total`

> : **Description**: The number of messages produced to Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: Is this correct?

```suggestion
: **Description**: The number of messages written by Kafka producers and sent to brokers.
```

Author: I think the original sounds better. Rephrased it `produced and sent to`, if that's ok for you

: **Metric type**: count

`pipelines.kafka_produced_messages_bytes_total`

> : **Description**: The number of message bytes produced to Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: **Description**: The number of message bytes written by Kafka producers and sent to brokers.
```

: **Metric type**: count

`pipelines.kafka_queue_messages`
: **Description**: Current number of messages in the librdkafka producer queue.
: **Metric type**: gauge

`pipelines.kafka_queue_messages_bytes`
: **Description**: Current total size, in bytes, of messages in the librdkafka producer queue.
: **Metric type**: gauge

`pipelines.kafka_requests_total`
: **Description**: The number of requests sent to Kafka brokers.
: **Metric type**: count

`pipelines.kafka_requests_bytes_total`
: **Description**: The number of bytes transmitted to Kafka brokers.
: **Metric type**: count

`pipelines.kafka_responses_total`

> : **Description**: The number of responses received from Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: Is this describing the number of responses received by Kafka brokers? If so, then I suggest the following edit. Or is it saying the number of responses sent from Kafka brokers to somewhere else?

```suggestion
: **Description**: The number of responses the Worker receives from the Kafka brokers after writing to them.
```

Author: the sink writes to a kafka broker and gets a response from it.

: **Metric type**: count

`pipelines.kafka_responses_bytes_total`

> : **Description**: The number of bytes received from Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: Same question as above.

[4]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/azure-event-hubs-apache-kafka-overview
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
[7]: https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/clients/librdkafka/html/md_CONFIGURATION.html
[9]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#event-batching
[10]: /observability_pipelines/configuration/set_up_pipelines/
[11]: /api/latest/observability-pipelines/
[12]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/datadog/datadog/latest/docs/resources/observability_pipeline

> [13]: /observability_pipelines/monitoring/metrics/#component-metrics

Reviewer: Links to the Pipeline Usage Metrics doc should have the URL: https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/monitoring_and_troubleshooting/pipeline_usage_metrics/

where it's `\monitoring_and_troubleshooting\`. The `/monitoring/metrics/` is the old link.

```suggestion
[13]: /observability_pipelines/monitoring_and_troubleshooting/pipeline_usage_metrics/#component-metrics
```

> [14]: /observability_pipelines/monitoring/metrics/#destination-buffer-metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[14]: /observability_pipelines/observability_pipelines/monitoring_and_troubleshooting/pipeline_usage_metrics//#destination-buffer-metrics
```
